docs: add Terraform module (#2560)
edgelesssys/constellation: docs/docs/workflows/terraform-module.md

# Use the Terraform module
You can manage a Constellation cluster through Terraform.
The module package is available as part of the [GitHub release](https://github.com/edgelesssys/constellation/releases/). It consists of a convenience module for each cloud service provider (`{csp}-constellation`) that combines the IAM (`infrastructure/{csp}/iam`), infrastructure (`infrastructure/{csp}`), and constellation (`constellation-cluster`) modules.

## Prerequisites
- a Linux / Mac operating system
- a Terraform installation of version `v1.4.4` or above

## Quick setup
The convenience module allows setting up a Constellation cluster with a single module. It's easiest to consume the module through a remote source, as shown below.
This allows to upgrade the cluster to a newer Constellation version by simply updating the module source.

1. Create a directory (workspace) for your Constellation cluster.
  ```bash

>   mkdir c11n
>   cd c11n

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  mkdir constellation-workspace
  cd constellation-workspace
```

nit: give this a more descriptive name

  ```

1. Create a `main.tf` file to call the CSP specific Constellation module.

  <tabs groupId="csp">

  <tabItem value="aws" label="AWS">

  ```

>   module "aws-constellation" {
>     source = "https://github.com/edgelesssys/constellation/releases/download/@@CONSTELLATION_VERSION@@/terraform-module.zip//modules/aws-constellation"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  variable "module_version" { ... }

  module "aws-constellation" {
    source = "https://github.com/edgelesssys/constellation/releases/download/${var.module_version}/terraform-module.zip//modules/aws-constellation"
```

If we don't want the user to replace the version within the URL, we could also have it as a variable, which might be more clear to the user.

Author: this is a good idea! did that

    name        = "aws-example"
    zone        = "us-east-2c"
    name_prefix = "example"
    node_groups = {
      control_plane_default = {
        role          = "control-plane"
        zone          = "us-east-2c"
        instance_type = "m6a.xlarge"
        disk_size     = 30
        disk_type     = "gp3"
        initial_count = 3
      },
      worker_default = {
        role          = "worker"
        zone          = "us-east-2c"
        instance_type = "m6a.xlarge"
        disk_size     = 30
        disk_type     = "gp3"
        initial_count = 2
      }
    }
  }
  ```

  </tabItem>

  <tabItem value="gcp" label="GCP">

  ```
  module "gcp-constellation" {
    source = "https://github.com/edgelesssys/constellation/releases/download/$VERSION/terraform-module.zip//modules/gcp-constellation" # TODO check the link during the release. So far only tested with https://tfmodule.s3.eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/modulesV2.zip//modules/aws-constellation
    name    = "gcp-ex"
    project = "constellation-331613"
    service_account_id = "ex"

>     image   = "$VERSION" // replace with the desired version, e.g., `v2.13.0`.

Reviewer: remove the image here, as above

    zone    = "europe-west2-a"
    node_groups = {
      control_plane_default = {
        role          = "control-plane"
        zone          = "europe-west2-a"
        instance_type = "n2d-standard-4"
        disk_size     = 30
        disk_type     = "pd-ssd"
        initial_count = 3
      },
      worker_default = {
        role          = "worker"
        zone          = "europe-west2-a"
        instance_type = "n2d-standard-4"
        disk_size     = 30
        disk_type     = "pd-ssd"
        initial_count = 2
      }
    }
  }
  ```

  </tabItem>

  </tabs>

3. Initialize and apply the module.
  ```bash
  terraform init
  terraform apply
  ```

## Custom setup
If you need to separate IAM and cluster management or need custom infrastructure, you can also call the submodules individually.
You can have a look at the respective convenience module (`{csp}-constellation`) for how the module calls can be structured.
The submodules are:

> - `constellation-cluster`: applies the Constellation cluster

Reviewer: This description is not descriptive to a user imo. What is "applies"? Imo, we should rather say "manages".

- `fetch-image`: translates the Constellation image version to the image ID of the cloud service provider
- `infrastructure/{csp}`: contains the cluster infrastructure resources
- `infrastructure/iam/{csp}`: contains the IAM resources used within the cluster

## Cluster upgrades

> The usage of a [remote URL as module source](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/modules/sources#fetching-archives-over-http) is recommended, because it simplifies the upgrade process. For [local paths as module source](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/modules/sources#local-paths), the user needs to manually overwrite the Terraform files in the Terraform workspace. The steps for the remote URL setup are as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The usage of a [remote URL as module source](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/modules/sources#fetching-archives-over-http) is recommended, because it simplifies the upgrade process. For [local paths as module source](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/modules/sources#local-paths), you need to manually overwrite the Terraform files in the Terraform workspace. The steps for the remote URL setup are as follows:
```

> 1. Update the `source` field by inserting the `<new_version>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Update the `source` field by replacing `<new_version>` by the upgrade's target version.
```

    ```

>         source = "https://github.com/edgelesssys/constellation/releases/download/<new_version>/terraform-module.zip//modules/$CSP-constellation" # TODO check the link during the release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        source = "https://github.com/edgelesssys/constellation/releases/download/<new_version>/terraform-module.zip//modules/$CSP-constellation"
```

We should not leave TODOs in the docs

   ```
2.  Upgrade the Terraform module and provider dependencies and apply the Constellation upgrade.
  ```bash
  terraform init -upgrade
  terraform apply
  ```

:::tip
For general information on cluster upgrades, please refer to [Upgrade your cluster](./upgrade.md).

> :::

Reviewer: nit: could be moved to the top of the page

# Use the Terraform module

> You can manage a Constellation cluster through Terraform.

Author: we also support upgrades

The necessary module package is available as part of the release and consists of a convenience module for each cloud service provider (`{csp}-constellation`) that combines the IAM (`infrastructure/{csp}/iam`), infrastructure (`infrastructure/{csp}`), and constellation (`constellation-cluster`) modules.

## Prerequisites
- a Linux / Mac operating system
- a Terraform installation of at least `v1.4.4`

## Quick setup
The convenience module allows setting up a Constellation cluster with a single module. It's easiest to consume the module through a remote source, as shown below.
This allows to upgrade the cluster to a newer Constellation version by simply updating the module source.

1. Create a directory (workspace) for your Constellation cluster.
  ```bash
  mkdir c11n
  cd c11n
  ```

1. Create a `main.tf` file to call the CSP specific Constellation module.

  <tabs groupId="csp">

  <tabItem value="aws" label="AWS">

  ```
  module "aws-constellation" {

>     source = "https://github.com/edgelesssys/constellation/releases/download/$VERSION/terraform-module.zip//modules/aws-constellation" # TODO check the link (name the to be zipped dir modules) during the release. So far only tested with https://tfmodule.s3.eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/modulesV2.zip//modules/aws-constellation

Author: yes this is syntax to specify a submodule: https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/modules/sources#modules-in-package-sub-directories

    name        = "aws-example"

>     image       = "$VERSION" // replace with the desired version, e.g., `v2.13.0`.

Reviewer 2: URL also contains $VERSION. And this is easily overlooked.

Reviewer: remove image here, as there now is a default: https://github.com/edgelesssys/constellation/pull/2566/commits/d1debdec7da9277af7f34d42ff9f898d1db143b8

- `fetch-image`: translates the Constellation image version to the image ID of the cloud service provider
- `infrastructure/{csp}`: contains the cluster infrastructure resources
- `infrastructure/iam/{csp}`: contains the resources to set up IAM

## Cluster upgrades
The usage of a [remote URL as module source](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/modules/sources#fetching-archives-over-http) is recommended, because it simplifies the upgrade process. For [local paths as module source](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/modules/sources#local-paths), the user needs to manually overwrite the Terraform files in the Terraform workspace. The steps for the remote URL setup are as follows:

1. Update the `source` field by inserting the `$NEW_VERSION`.
    ```
        source = "https://github.com/edgelesssys/constellation/releases/download/$NEW_VERSION/terraform-module.zip//modules/$CSP-constellation" # TODO check the link during the release.
   ```
2. (Optional) Update the image version.

    `image` is a mandatory field and needs to be updated to `$NEW_VERSION` to perform a node image upgrade.

3. (Optional) Update the Kubernetes version.

>     If `kubernetes_version` isn't set, the latest default version of the newer Constellation release will be used, which may imply a Kubernetes upgrade. If you want to avoid implicit upgrades, explicitly set this field. For the supported versions, refer to [Kubernetes support policy](../architecture/versions.md#kubernetes-support-policy).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If `kubernetes_version` isn't set, the latest default version of the newer Constellation release will be used, which may imply a Kubernetes upgrade. If you want to avoid implicit upgrades, explicitly set this field. For the supported versions, refer to [ Constellation's Kubernetes support policy](../architecture/versions.md#kubernetes-support-policy).
```

    #TODO should we add the info from /dev-docs/workflows/versions-support.md on the official page to provide info on image / microservice support too?

4.  (Optional) Update the microservice version.

>     If `microservice_version` isn't set, the new version of the Constellation release will be used. This is a reasonable default, but you might want to prevent implicit upgrades by explicitly setting the field.

Reviewer: imo, we should prevent things like "might want to", as this seems like we are unsure of what we say here.

# Use the Terraform module
You can manage a Constellation cluster through Terraform.
The necessary module package is available as part of the release and consists of a convenience module for each cloud service provider (`{csp}-constellation`) that combines the IAM (`infrastructure/{csp}/iam`), infrastructure (`infrastructure/{csp}`), and constellation (`constellation-cluster`) modules.

## Prerequisites
- a Linux / Mac operating system
- a Terraform installation of at least `v1.4.4`

## Quick setup
The convenience module allows setting up a Constellation cluster with a single module. It's easiest to consume the module through a remote source, as shown below.
This allows to upgrade the cluster to a newer Constellation version by simply updating the module source.

> In all examples, remember to replace `$VERSION` with the desired version, e.g., `v2.13.0`.

Reviewer 2: I think this sentence needs now to be moved to the respective step and be rephrased accordingly

        zone          = "europe-west2-a"
        instance_type = "n2d-standard-4"
        disk_size     = 30
        disk_type     = "pd-ssd"
        initial_count = 3
      },
      worker_default = {
        role          = "worker"
        zone          = "europe-west2-a"
        instance_type = "n2d-standard-4"
        disk_size     = 30
        disk_type     = "pd-ssd"
        initial_count = 2
      }
    }
  }
  ```

  </tabItem>

  </tabs>

3. Initialize and apply Terraform.
  ```bash
  terraform init
  terraform apply
  ```

## Custom setup
If you need to separate IAM and cluster management or need custom infrastructure, you can also call the submodules individually.
Look at the respective convenience module (`{csp}-constellation`) for the structure.
The submodules are:
- `constellation-cluster`: fetches the CLI, creates the Constellation configuration, and applies it to the cluster
- `fetch-image`: translates the Constellation image version to the image ID of the cloud service provider
- `infrastructure/{csp}`: contains the cluster infrastructure resources
- `infrastructure/iam/{csp}`: contains the resources to set up IAM

## Cluster upgrades

> Using the remote URL of the terraform-module zip as source, the instructions inside your `main.tf` file are as follows:

Reviewer 2: I don't understand this sentence

Author: tried to make it more clear

1. Update the `source` field by inserting the `$NEW_VERSION`.
    ```
        source = "https://github.com/edgelesssys/constellation/releases/download/$NEW_VERSION/terraform-module.zip//modules/$CSP-constellation" # TODO check the link during the release.
   ```
2. (Optional) Update the image version.

    `image` is a mandatory field and needs to be updated to `$NEW_VERSION` to perform a node image upgrade.

3. (Optional) Update the Kubernetes version.

>     If `kubernetes_version` isn't set, the latest version default on the newer Constellation release will be used, which might imply a Kubernetes upgrade. If you want to avoid implicit upgrades, explicitly set the  field. For the supported versions, refer to [Kubernetes support policy](../architecture/versions.md#kubernetes-support-policy).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    If `kubernetes_version` isn't set, the latest default version of the newer Constellation release will be used, which may imply a Kubernetes upgrade. If you want to avoid implicit upgrades, explicitly set this field. For the supported versions, refer to [Kubernetes support policy](../architecture/versions.md#kubernetes-support-policy).
```

    #TODO should we add the info from /dev-docs/workflows/versions-support.md on the official page to provide info on image / microservice support too?

4.  (Optional) Update the microservice version.

>     If `microservice_version` isn't set, the new version of the Constellation release will be used. This is a reasonable default, but you might want to prevent implicit upgrades by explicitly setting the field.

Reviewer 2: It's hard to understand for users when they should do what. For upgrading with the CLI, we just say that skipping one of these is only for "advanced users." Maybe we should limit this workflow to the default case?

Author: What's a good way to explain this fields then to the user since they are exposed as variables in the module. Should we add "ADVANCED USAGE:" to the description of the terraform variable to advise the user to not touch it?

Author: Moritz was against adding the hint. I went with limiting the workflow to the default case and removed the config steps.

Reviewer: In my opinion, we should not have such "hints" in the variable descriptions, as we currently don't have these in the config either, which could create uncertainty on what is "correct". We already say that there are defaults in the variable descriptions, which is enough in my opinion.

## Prerequisites
- a Linux / Mac operating system
- a Terraform installation of version `v1.4.4` or above

## Quick setup
The convenience module allows setting up a Constellation cluster with a single module. It's easiest to consume the module through a remote source, as shown below.
This allows to upgrade the cluster to a newer Constellation version by simply updating the module source.

:::caution

In the current release of the module, `terraform apply` creates files such as `constellation-conf.yaml`, `constellation-state.yaml` , `constellation-admin.conf`, `constellation-mastersecret.json`, and a directory `constellation-terraform"` containing backups. Make sure to check in these files in your version control when using GitOps.
The files are deleted on `terraform destroy`.

:::

1. Create a directory (workspace) for your Constellation cluster.
  ```bash
  mkdir constellation-workspace
  cd constellation-workspace
  ```

1. Create a `main.tf` file to call the CSP specific Constellation module.

  <tabs groupId="csp">

  <tabItem value="azure" label="Azure">

  ```
  module "azure-constellation" {

>     source = "https://github.com/edgelesssys/constellation/releases/download/<version>/terraform-module.zip//terraform-module/azure-constellation" // insert Constellation version here.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    // replace <version> with a Constellation version, e.g., v2.13.0
    source = "https://github.com/edgelesssys/constellation/releases/download/<version>/terraform-module.zip//terraform-module/azure-constellation"
```
* The comment at the end of the line can easily be overlooked.
* We should give a hint on the format of the version number.

# Use the Terraform module
You can manage a Constellation cluster through Terraform.
The module package is available as part of the [GitHub release](https://github.com/edgelesssys/constellation/releases/). It consists of a convenience module for each cloud service provider (`{csp}-constellation`) that combines the IAM (`infrastructure/{csp}/iam`), infrastructure (`infrastructure/{csp}`), and constellation (`constellation-cluster`) modules.

## Prerequisites
- a Linux / Mac operating system
- a Terraform installation of version `v1.4.4` or above

## Quick setup
The convenience module allows setting up a Constellation cluster with a single module. It's easiest to consume the module through a remote source, as shown below.
This allows to upgrade the cluster to a newer Constellation version by simply updating the module source.

:::caution

> The current module still relies on the Constellation CLI. Consequently, `terraform apply` creates files such as `constellation.conf.yaml`, `constellation-state.yaml` , `constellation-admin.conf`, `constellation-mastersecret.json` and a directory `constellation-terraform"` containing backups. Make sure to check in these files in your version control when using GitOps.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the current release of the module, `terraform apply` creates files such as `constellation-conf.yaml`, `constellation-state.yaml` , `constellation-admin.conf`, `constellation-mastersecret.json`, and a directory `constellation-terraform"` containing backups. Make sure to check in these files in your version control when using GitOps.
```

> The current module still relies on the Constellation CLI. Consequently, `terraform apply` creates files such as `constellation.conf.yaml`, `constellation-state.yaml` , `constellation-admin.conf`, `constellation-mastersecret.json` and a directory `constellation-terraform"` containing backups. Make sure to check in these files in your version control when using GitOps.

Reviewer 2: Do all of these files have to be kept?

Author: No, but most of them. `constellation.conf.yaml` could be reconstructed, but the rest contains cluster information from the apply command.

> The resources are deleted on `terraform destroy`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The files are deleted on `terraform destroy`.
```

:::

1. Create a directory (workspace) for your Constellation cluster.
  ```bash
  mkdir constellation-workspace
  cd constellation-workspace
  ```

1. Create a `main.tf` file to call the CSP specific Constellation module.

  <tabs groupId="csp">

  <tabItem value="azure" label="Azure">

  ```
  module "azure-constellation" {
    source = "https://github.com/edgelesssys/constellation/releases/download/<version>/terraform-module.zip//terraform-module/azure-constellation" // insert Constellation version here.

>     https://github.com/edgelesssys/constellation/releases/download/v2.13.0/terraform-module.zip//terraform-module/aws-constellation

Reviewer 2: fix

If you need to separate IAM and cluster management or need custom infrastructure, you can also call the submodules individually.
Look at the respective convenience module (`{csp}-constellation`) for how you can structure the module calls.
The submodules are:
- `constellation-cluster`: manages the Constellation cluster
- `fetch-image`: translates the Constellation image version to the image ID of the cloud service provider
- `infrastructure/{csp}`: contains the cluster infrastructure resources
- `infrastructure/iam/{csp}`: contains the IAM resources used within the cluster

## Cluster upgrades
:::tip
For general information on cluster upgrades, see [Upgrade your cluster](./upgrade.md).
:::

Using a [remote address as module source](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/modules/sources#fetching-archives-over-http) as shown in [Quick setup](#quick-setup) is recommended because it simplifies the upgrade process. For [local paths as module source](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/modules/sources#local-paths), you would need to manually overwrite the Terraform files in the Terraform workspace. The steps for the remote source setup are as follows:

> 1. Update the local `module_version` variable.

Reviewer 2: step 1 is outdated

The module package is available as part of the [GitHub release](https://github.com/edgelesssys/constellation/releases/). It consists of a convenience module for each cloud service provider (`{csp}-constellation`) that combines the IAM (`infrastructure/{csp}/iam`), infrastructure (`infrastructure/{csp}`), and constellation (`constellation-cluster`) modules.

## Prerequisites
- a Linux / Mac operating system
- a Terraform installation of version `v1.4.4` or above

## Quick setup
The convenience module allows setting up a Constellation cluster with a single module. It's easiest to consume the module through a remote source, as shown below.
This allows to upgrade the cluster to a newer Constellation version by simply updating the module source.

1. Create a directory (workspace) for your Constellation cluster.
  ```bash
  mkdir constellation-workspace
  cd constellation-workspace
  ```

1. Create a `main.tf` file to call the CSP specific Constellation module.

  <tabs groupId="csp">

  <tabItem value="azure" label="Azure">

  ```
  locals {
    module_version = "v0.0.0" // insert Constellation version here.
  }

  module "azure-constellation" {

>     source = "https://github.com/edgelesssys/constellation/releases/download/${local.module_version}/terraform-module.zip//modules/azure-constellation"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    source = "https://github.com/edgelesssys/constellation/releases/download/${local.module_version}/terraform-module.zip//modules/azure-constellation"
```

Testing this, I noticed the following: 
```
╷
│ Error: Variables not allowed
│ 
│   on main.tf line 5, in module "aws-constellation":
│    5:     source = "https://github.com/edgelesssys/constellation/releases/download/${local.module_version}/terraform-module.zip//modules/aws-constellation"
│ 
│ Variables may not be used here.
╵
```

We could instead use a bash variable and output the contents to a file.

Reviewer: Also, I think our path is not `modules`, but `terraform-module`. I still need to verify that once the actual release is out though.

Author: Good point. I actually had some issues referencing `terraform-module` and it ended up working with `modules` so we might want to zip the files in a `modules` directory.

Author: since it's a singe variable I'd rather go back to `<version>` // please insert your version here
instead of overcomplicating.

Reviewer: this URL works:
`https://github.com/edgelesssys/constellation/releases/download/v2.13.0/terraform-module.zip//terraform-module/aws-constellation`

Author: so the current path is correct. thanks for testing!

    name = "constell"
    location = "northeurope"
    service_principal_name = "az-sp"
    resource_group_name = "constell-rg"
    node_groups = {
      control_plane_default = {
        role          = "control-plane"
        instance_type = "Standard_DC4as_v5"
        disk_size     = 30
        disk_type     = "Premium_LRS"

>         initial_count = 2

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        initial_count = 3
```

  locals {
    module_version = "v0.0.0" // insert Constellation version here.
  }

  module "gcp-constellation" {
    source = "https://github.com/edgelesssys/constellation/releases/download/${local.module_version}/terraform-module.zip//modules/gcp-constellation"
    name    = "constell"
    project = "constell-proj" // replace with your project id
    service_account_id = "constid"
    zone    = "europe-west2-a"
    node_groups = {
      control_plane_default = {
        role          = "control-plane"
        zone          = "europe-west2-a"
        instance_type = "n2d-standard-4"
        disk_size     = 30
        disk_type     = "pd-ssd"
        initial_count = 3
      },
      worker_default = {
        role          = "worker"
        zone          = "europe-west2-a"
        instance_type = "n2d-standard-4"
        disk_size     = 30
        disk_type     = "pd-ssd"
        initial_count = 2
      }
    }
  }
  ```

  </tabItem>
  </tabs>

3. Initialize and apply the module.
  ```bash
  terraform init
  terraform apply
  ```

## Custom setup
If you need to separate IAM and cluster management or need custom infrastructure, you can also call the submodules individually.

> You can have a look at the respective convenience module (`{csp}-constellation`) for how the module calls can be structured.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Look at the respective convenience module (`{csp}-constellation`) for how you can structure the module calls.
```
[prune every excess word](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/top-10-tips-style-voice#be-brief)

The submodules are:
- `constellation-cluster`: manages the Constellation cluster
- `fetch-image`: translates the Constellation image version to the image ID of the cloud service provider
- `infrastructure/{csp}`: contains the cluster infrastructure resources
- `infrastructure/iam/{csp}`: contains the IAM resources used within the cluster

## Cluster upgrades
:::tip

> For general information on cluster upgrades, please refer to [Upgrade your cluster](./upgrade.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For general information on cluster upgrades, please refer to the specific documentation for [Upgrading your cluster](./upgrade.md).
```

I don't know if this is perfect, but otherwise the sentence doesn't make sense imo.

> For general information on cluster upgrades, please refer to [Upgrade your cluster](./upgrade.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For general information on cluster upgrades, see [Upgrade your cluster](./upgrade.md).
```
https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/p/please

:::

> The usage of a [remote address as module source](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/modules/sources#fetching-archives-over-http) is recommended, because it simplifies the upgrade process. For [local paths as module source](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/modules/sources#local-paths), the user needs to manually overwrite the Terraform files in the Terraform workspace. The steps for the remote source setup are as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The usage of a [remote address as module source](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/modules/sources#fetching-archives-over-http) is recommended, because it simplifies the upgrade process. For [local paths as module source](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/modules/sources#local-paths), you need to manually overwrite the Terraform files in the Terraform workspace. The steps for the remote source setup are as follows:
```

> The usage of a [remote address as module source](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/modules/sources#fetching-archives-over-http) is recommended, because it simplifies the upgrade process. For [local paths as module source](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/modules/sources#local-paths), the user needs to manually overwrite the Terraform files in the Terraform workspace. The steps for the remote source setup are as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Using a [remote address as module source](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/modules/sources#fetching-archives-over-http) as shown in [Quick setup](#quick-setup) is recommended because it simplifies the upgrade process. For [local paths as module source](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/modules/sources#local-paths), you would need to manually overwrite the Terraform files in the Terraform workspace. The steps for the remote source setup are as follows:
```

> # Terraform module

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Use the Terraform module
```

> It's possible to manage Constellation, including upgrades, through Terraform.

Reviewer 2: How does this workflow relate to other uses of Terraform (or self-managed) documented elsewhere in our docs? E.g., does it replace them? Or do we need cross-references?

Author: talked to @msanft and agreed to merge the `self-managed` and `terraform` tabs. We also want to refer to the Terraform module as recommended way for self-managed

> It's possible to manage Constellation, including upgrades, through Terraform.
> The necessary module package is available as part of the release and consists of a convenience module for each cloud service provider (`{csp}-constellation`) that combines the IAM (`infrastructure/{csp}/iam`), infrastructure (`infrastructure/{csp}`) and constellation (`constellation-cluster`) modules.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can manage a Constellation cluster through Terraform.
The necessary module package is available as part of the release and consists of a convenience module for each cloud service provider (`{csp}-constellation`) that combines the IAM (`infrastructure/{csp}/iam`), infrastructure (`infrastructure/{csp}`), and constellation (`constellation-cluster`) modules.
```

## Quick setup
The convenience module allows to set up a Constellation cluster with a single module including all configurability that's otherwise possible through the CLI. It's easiest to consume the module through a remote source, as shown below.
This allows to upgrade the cluster to a newer Constellation version by simply updating the module source.

> In all examples remember to replace `$VERSION`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In all examples, remember to replace `$VERSION` with the desired version, e.g., `v2.13.0`.
```

### AWS example
```
module "aws-constellation" {
  source = "https://github.com/edgelesssys/constellation/releases/download/$VERSION/terraform-module.zip//modules/aws-constellation" # TODO check the link (name the to be zipped dir modules) during the release. So far only tested with https://tfmodule.s3.eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/modulesV2.zip//modules/aws-constellation
  name        = "aws-example"
  image       = "$VERSION"
  zone        = "us-east-2c"
  name_prefix = "example"
  node_groups = {
    control_plane_default = {
      role          = "control-plane"
      zone          = "us-east-2c"
      instance_type = "m6a.xlarge"
      disk_size     = 30
      disk_type     = "gp3"

>       initial_count = 2

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      initial_count = 3
```

    },
    worker_default = {
      role          = "worker"
      zone          = "us-east-2c"
      instance_type = "m6a.xlarge"
      disk_size     = 30
      disk_type     = "gp3"
      initial_count = 2
    }
  }
}
```

### GCP example
```

> module "aws-constellation" {
>   source = "https://github.com/edgelesssys/constellation/releases/download/$VERSION/terraform-module.zip" # TODO check the link during the release. So far only tested with https://tfmodule.s3.eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/modulesV2.zip//modules/aws-constellation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
module "gcp-constellation" {
  source = "https://github.com/edgelesssys/constellation/releases/download/$VERSION/terraform-module.zip//modules/gcp-constellation" # TODO check the link during the release. So far only tested with https://tfmodule.s3.eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/modulesV2.zip//modules/aws-constellation
```

  name    = "gcp-ex"
  project = "constellation-331613"
  service_account_id = "ex"
  image   = "$VERSION"
  zone    = "europe-west2-a"
  node_groups = {
    control_plane_default = {
      role          = "control-plane"
      zone          = "europe-west2-a"
      instance_type = "n2d-standard-4"
      disk_size     = 30
      disk_type     = "pd-ssd"

>       initial_count = 2

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      initial_count = 3
```

    },
    worker_default = {
      role          = "worker"
      zone          = "europe-west2-a"
      instance_type = "n2d-standard-4"
      disk_size     = 30
      disk_type     = "pd-ssd"
      initial_count = 2
    }
  }
}
```

## Custom setup
If you need to separate IAM and cluster management or need custom infrastructure, you can also call the submodules individually.

> You can have a look at the respective convenience module (`{csp}-constellation`) for the structure.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Look at the respective convenience module (`{csp}-constellation`) for the structure.
```

The submodules are:

> - `constellation-cluster`: used to fetch the CLI, create the Constellation configuration and to apply the cluster
> - `fetch-image`: used to translate the Constellation image version to the image ID of the cloud service provider

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `constellation-cluster`: fetches the CLI, creates the Constellation configuration, and applies it to the cluster
- `fetch-image`: translates the Constellation image version to the image ID of the cloud service provider
```

- `infrastructure/{csp}`: contains the cluster infrastructure resources
- `infrastructure/iam/{csp}`: contains the resources to set up IAM

## Cluster upgrades
using the remote source:
1. update the module source
2. update the image / Kubernetes version (if explicitly set)
3. `terraform init --upgrade`

> 4. `terraform apply`

Reviewer 2: This looks like a draft that needs to be elaborated. Look at "First steps" in "Getting started" for an example of how instructions should be written. Also see https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/procedures-instructions/writing-step-by-step-instructions
